# world-trade-network

Bilateral trade or clearing trade is trade exclusively between two states, particularly, barter trade based on bilateral deals between governments, and without using the hard currency for payment. Bilateral trade agreements often aim to keep trade deficits at a minimum by keeping a clearing account where deficits would accumulate. Traditional trade studies look at things like trade costs, a country's comparative advantage, the impact of exchange rates on trade patterns, and bilateral trade agreements. When seen as a complicated network, however, trade figures can provide valuable insight. Densely connected nodes, together with their degree of connectedness, can be used to identify influential nodes in a network, which can then be used to better understand the trade network's structure.

There are 161 countries or regions officially counted by the UN in the world producing bilateral trade. The world trade network (WTN) defined as T= {N,A,W,V}, which refers to the trade network formed by the mutual bilateral trade between the above-mentioned countries. The first part of the network is the graph G(N,A), where nodes N={1,2,⋯161} is the set of the countries and regions and links A={1,2,⋯m} is the set of trade flows between pairs of nodes. G is a directed graph as the trade flows are directed from the export country e to the import country i, where A_ei∈{0,1}. The second part of the network is the network characteristics C(W,V) where W is the line value function and V is the vertex value function (De Benedictis & Tajoli, 2011). The volume of trade between the two countries is regarded as a measure of the degree of mutual economic dependence. The positive element wei in W serves as the binary weight of G, transforming the simple directed graph into a weighted network, where wei represents the degree of the connection between country e and country i. V includes the unique value of each country. In this study, V mainly includes geographic location, global ecological footprint, and human development index et. al.

By analyzing the network of bilateral trade in different years, the development of the world and the closeness of the connection and trade can be revealed. From another perspective, although it may not be as complex as a multi-node network, the relationship between nodes in WTN is very complicated. Therefore, even small changes in graph topology may have a huge impact on the overall structure of the network. Most research on WTN was completed at the beginning of the 21st century. In order to study the complex interrelationships and dynamic evolution between various countries and trade, it is necessary to fully understand the potential structural characteristics of WTN. This project aims to reveal some of the key characteristics that characterize WTN, identify dominant nodes and the way they manage the network, and study the carbon trading issues and wealth gap problems derived from WTN.